LinkedListRange
==================


ShouldBe_CheckOnce
For usages where majority of the time new value ranges that are added are
usually adjacent to one another and also having value ranges which are
non-overlapping and increasing, then ll_add_sorted_startfrom_lastadded is a
almost optimal logic to use, except for the situations where

the new value range to add doesnt belong to the end of the list, but somewhere
towards the begining or middle of the list, in this case, the
startfrom_lastadded will insert these to the location just before the lastadded
node.


Main logic
=============

* Have option to send mcast stops at the begining of hkvc-nw-recover.py

This is to take care of any clients which might have missed the mcast stop
sent by the mcast logic.

* Multicast data packets in UCastRecovery (rather MCastRecovery) phase.

Have implemented ll_delete_starthint_beforedel, which should help optimise the
deletion from lost packets list usage, if I were to reimplement the unicast
recovery as unicast query+response, but followed by multicast data packets
being sent towards the clients instead of the current unicast data packets to
the client which are working with at a given time in UR phase.

In normal ucast recovery, as the client recovering the lost data packets is
actively steering/controlling the server wrt what packets it will send, the
deletion of lost packet from the lost packets list, once it has been recieved,
will for the majority of the time occur at the beginning of the lost packets
list.

However if we allow the data packets sent to help with recovery for a given
client to be also multicast, so that it can help other clients which may have
lost the same packets, then other than the active client which is steering the
data packets seen on the network thro its URAckSeqNum response packets, all
other clients could be getting either packets which they already have with them
as well as they could be getting packets which they dont have, but these
packets could be somewhere other than the start of the lost packets list.

This ll_delete_starthint_beforedel helps handle this situation in a efficient
way.

* Also may be make the client side logic stateless.

i.e the client side logic should be written such that at the same time it is
listenning for either mcast data/stop phase packets or PI phase packets or UR
phase packets.

